README.md, before:

# nextcloud-mfa-awareness
Make Nextcloud aware of whether the current user is logged in with Multi-Factor Authentication

Open this repo on GitPod or any other Docker-capable development environment and:

```
git submodule update --init
cd server
git submodule update --init
cd ../servers
./setup-saml.sh
```

Now use the exposed port 5800 of the Firefox tester container as a browser-inside-the-browser to visit

https://sunet-nc2 (ignore the security warning, these as self-signed certs)

Log in with usr1 / pwd1
[FIXME: to be continued ...]


Instead of 'setup-saml.sh' you can also run 'setup-totp.sh', or 'setup-gss.sh'. If you want to test webauthn then you'll have to use 'setup-with-tls.sh' (see below).

When using `setup-gss.sh` you should specify the how you are going to address the SimpleSamlPhp server:
### `./setup-gss.sh testnet`
Using the Firefox tester in the testnet, the gss leader htttp://sunet-nc1 will redirect you to http://sunet-ssp within
the testnet.
### `./setup-gss.sh localhost`
Using Docker on your laptop, the gss leader which exposes htttp://localhost:8080 will redirect you to
http://localhost:8082 which is exposed by the SimpleSamlPhp server.
This is also the default (when you just run `./setup-gss.sh`).

### `./setup-gss.sh mesh.pondersource.org`
Using Docker-exposed ports over the internet, similar to using localhost, but with URLs like htttp://mesh.pondersource.org:8080 and http://mesh.pondersource.org:8082
This will probably not work though, depending on your browser, the SSP server may say you have cookies disabled and not
show the login screen.

If you're running this on a Windows host system, you can try `setup.bat` instead.

If you run this on localhost, depending on the host system, you may be able to access the Nextcloud GUI on https://sunet-nc2/ or https://localhost:8081/.
If you run this on mesh.pondersource.org, try http://mesh.pondersource.org:8081 (Admin / !QAZ1qaz).

Login may not work on http://mesh.pondersource.org:8081 (keeps showing the login page), when this happens, try
 http://mesh.pondersource.org:5800 and then visit http://sunet-nc2 using the browser-inside-a-browser.

In the case of `./setup-gss.sh`, the gss leader will be accessable on  https://sunet-nc1/ / https://\<host\>:8080/

NB 2: For the webauthn flow you will need to run this on a DNS-addressable server, and copy the true TLS cert/key files into ./tls:
```
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/mesh.pondersource.org/fullchain.pem tls/server.cert
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/mesh.pondersource.org/privkey.pem tls/server.key
```
Then you can run: `./setup-with-tls.sh webauthn`
Note that on mesh.pondersource.org you'll have to flush iptables to get this to work, and after that,
restart the server if you want to go back to using the regular `./setup.sh` script.

NB 3: If you run two setup scripts in a row, the docker containers from the previous run will still be around.
If you want to kill and remove *all* Docker containers on the host (including possibly unrelated ones that were started by
other processes or users), run `./clean.sh`. Use at your own risk. :)

Commit message:

Need to run composer install on Nextcloud server

README.md, after:

# nextcloud-mfa-awareness
Make Nextcloud aware of whether the current user is logged in with Multi-Factor Authentication

Moving parts:
* our contribution to NC user_saml: https://github.com/nextcloud/user_saml/pull/668 (merged)
* our contribution to NC GSS: https://github.com/nextcloud/globalsiteselector/pull/80 (merged)
* our contribution to NC MFA: https://github.com/nextcloud/server/pull/35555 (pending)
* our contribution to NC workflow engine: https://github.com/nextcloud/server/pull/37195 (pending)

Open this repo on GitPod or any other Docker-capable development environment and:

```
git submodule update --init
cd server
git submodule update --init
composer install
cd ../servers
./setup-saml.sh
```

Now use the exposed port 5800 of the Firefox tester container as a browser-inside-the-browser to visit

https://sunet-nc2 (ignore the security warning, these as self-signed certs)

Log in with usr1 / pwd1
[FIXME: to be continued ...]


Instead of 'setup-saml.sh' you can also run 'setup-totp.sh', or 'setup-gss.sh'. If you want to test webauthn then you'll have to use 'setup-with-tls.sh' (see below).

When using `setup-gss.sh` you should specify the how you are going to address the SimpleSamlPhp server:
### `./setup-gss.sh testnet`
Using the Firefox tester in the testnet, the gss leader htttp://sunet-nc1 will redirect you to http://sunet-ssp within
the testnet.
### `./setup-gss.sh localhost`
Using Docker on your laptop, the gss leader which exposes htttp://localhost:8080 will redirect you to
http://localhost:8082 which is exposed by the SimpleSamlPhp server.
This is also the default (when you just run `./setup-gss.sh`).

### `./setup-gss.sh mesh.pondersource.org`
Using Docker-exposed ports over the internet, similar to using localhost, but with URLs like htttp://mesh.pondersource.org:8080 and http://mesh.pondersource.org:8082
This will probably not work though, depending on your browser, the SSP server may say you have cookies disabled and not
show the login screen.

If you're running this on a Windows host system, you can try `setup.bat` instead.

If you run this on localhost, depending on the host system, you may be able to access the Nextcloud GUI on https://sunet-nc2/ or https://localhost:8081/.
If you run this on mesh.pondersource.org, try http://mesh.pondersource.org:8081 (Admin / !QAZ1qaz).

Login may not work on http://mesh.pondersource.org:8081 (keeps showing the login page), when this happens, try
 http://mesh.pondersource.org:5800 and then visit http://sunet-nc2 using the browser-inside-a-browser.

In the case of `./setup-gss.sh`, the gss leader will be accessable on  https://sunet-nc1/ / https://\<host\>:8080/

NB 2: For the webauthn flow you will need to run this on a DNS-addressable server, and copy the true TLS cert/key files into ./tls:
```
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/mesh.pondersource.org/fullchain.pem tls/server.cert
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/mesh.pondersource.org/privkey.pem tls/server.key
```
Then you can run: `./setup-with-tls.sh webauthn`
Note that on mesh.pondersource.org you'll have to flush iptables to get this to work, and after that,
restart the server if you want to go back to using the regular `./setup.sh` script.

NB 3: If you run two setup scripts in a row, the docker containers from the previous run will still be around.
If you want to kill and remove *all* Docker containers on the host (including possibly unrelated ones that were started by
other processes or users), run `./clean.sh`. Use at your own risk. :)
